---
title: Pierre Renault
subtitle: Research Director 
description: This is a product description
#product_code: ABC124
layout: product
image: http://www.micalis.fr/var/internet6_national_micalis/storage/images/poles-et-equipes/pole-ecosystemes-alimentaires-et-digestifs/ecologie-microbienne-des-aliments-marie-christine-champomier-verges/membres-de-l-equipe/pierre-renault/44209-3-fre-FR/Pierre-Renault_inra_image.jpg
rank: 5
features:
    - label: pierre.renault[at]inrae.fr
      icon: fa-regular fa-envelope
      link: mailto:pierre.renault@inrae.fr
    - label: +33 1 23 45 78 89
      icon: fa-regular fa-phone
    - label: Publications
      icon: fa-regular fa-book
      link: https://cv.archives-ouvertes.fr/pierre-renault


---

Pierre Renault, PhD, is Research Director at the Micalis Institute located in Jouy en Josas (Ile-de-France) 
in the National Institute for Agronomical Research (INRA). Micalis is composed of 29 teams working in Ecosystem, 
Food Risk and System Biology applied on Food and Health.

During his career, he developed pioneer researches on genetics and physiology of food bacteria. 
From 2009, he redirected part of his activities on human intestinal microorganisms that intimately 
interact with human physiology and may protect or favor metabolic disorders in conjunction of changes 
induced by diet, lifestyle and health. In this respect, it develops studies on a gut bacteria model species, 
Streptococcus salivarius. Furthermore, he participated to the development of metagenomic approaches to establish 
relationships between components of the human intestinal microbiome and metabolic disorders such as obesity
 and inflammatory bowel diseases. This includes the development of bioinformatic tools for data analysis
 generated by the New Generation Sequencers.

Currently, in the framework of a newly created team “Food Microbial Ecology” gathering skills in food
 microbial ecology, metagenomics and bioinformatics, he manages researches on microbial interaction 
 in food and their impact on food safety and quality with cutting edge approaches based on shotgun metagenomics.